# Configuring the OpenTelemetry Demo App to send data to Oracle Cloud Infrastucture (OCI) backend

The [OpenTelemetry Astronomy Shop](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo) is a demo app to illustrate the implementation of OpenTelemetry in a near real-world environment. It is a microservice-based distributed system which can be easily deployed using Docker or Kubernetes, where we will focus here on deploying it using Kubernetes/Helm.

Our aim is to guide you through the needed steps to deploy the OpenTelemetry Demo in a K8s cluster and send its data to OCI Observability and Management Services.

## Prerequisites
The following prerequisites are needed:
1. Ensure to have an [OCI account](https://signup.cloud.oracle.com).
2. In Application Performance Monitoring (APM) service, [create an APM domain.](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/application-performance-monitoring/doc/create-apm-domain.html)
3. Have the [Data Upload Endpoint URL and the private data key](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/application-performance-monitoring/doc/obtain-data-upload-endpoint-and-data-keys.html#GUID-912EA36F-4E58-4954-B9C2-4E9A9BADDAE9) of that domain available.
4. Have a Kubernetes Cluster available, either locally, in OCI or at other cloud vendors.

## Deploy the Demo App
We will start by creating a dedicated namespace for the demo app:
```bash
kubectl create namespace otel-demo-app
```
Next, we will create a secret named <samp>oci-apm-secret</samp>:
```bash
kubectl create secret generic oci-apm-secret -n otel-demo-app --from-literal="OCI_APM_ENDPOINT=<Data Upload Endpoint>" --from-literal="OCI_APM_DATAKEY=<Data Key>"
```
Add the OpenTelemetry Helm charts site to your repo to allow deploying the OpenTelemetry Demo:
```bash
helm repo add open-telemetry https://open-telemetry.github.io/opentelemetry-helm-charts
```
Create file <samp>my-values.yaml</samp> with the following content:
```
opentelemetry-collector:
  extraEnvsFrom:
    - secretRef:
        name: oci-apm-secret

  config:
    exporters:
      otlphttp/oci_spans:
        endpoint: "${OCI_APM_ENDPOINT}/20200101/opentelemetry/"
        headers:
          authorization: "dataKey ${OCI_APM_DATAKEY}"
        tls:
          insecure: false
      otlphttp/oci_metrics:
        endpoint: "${OCI_APM_ENDPOINT}/20200101/observations/metric?dataFormat=otlp-metric&dataFormatVersion=1"
        headers:
          authorization: "dataKey ${OCI_APM_DATAKEY}"
        tls:
          insecure: false

    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          exporters: [otlp, debug, spanmetrics, otlphttp/oci_spans]
        metrics:
          exporters: [otlphttp/prometheus, debug, otlphttp/oci_metrics]
```
Run the following <samp>helm</samp> command to deploy the OpenTelemetry Demo App:
```bash
helm install otel-demo-app open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo --values my-values.yaml -n otel-demo-app
```
Here is the expected output:
```bash
...

 ██████╗ ████████╗███████╗██╗         ██████╗ ███████╗███╗   ███╗ ██████╗
██╔═══██╗╚══██╔══╝██╔════╝██║         ██╔══██╗██╔════╝████╗ ████║██╔═══██╗
██║   ██║   ██║   █████╗  ██║         ██║  ██║█████╗  ██╔████╔██║██║   ██║
██║   ██║   ██║   ██╔══╝  ██║         ██║  ██║██╔══╝  ██║╚██╔╝██║██║   ██║
╚██████╔╝   ██║   ███████╗███████╗    ██████╔╝███████╗██║ ╚═╝ ██║╚██████╔╝
 ╚═════╝    ╚═╝   ╚══════╝╚══════╝    ╚═════╝ ╚══════╝╚═╝     ╚═╝ ╚═════╝


- All services are available via the Frontend proxy: http://localhost:8080
  by running these commands:
     kubectl --namespace default port-forward svc/otel-demo-app-frontendproxy 8080:8080

  The following services are available at these paths after the frontendproxy service is exposed with port forwarding:
  Webstore             http://localhost:8080/
  Jaeger UI            http://localhost:8080/jaeger/ui/
  Grafana              http://localhost:8080/grafana/
  Load Generator UI    http://localhost:8080/loadgen/
  Feature Flags UI     http://localhost:8080/feature/    
```

## Using OCI APM service to observe Traces and Spans
With the OpenTelemetry Demo App installed, you are now ready to explore the capabilities of OCI APM (Application Performance Monitoring) and gain deep insights into your application's performance. Lets start by showing you the process of visualising spans and traces using OCI APM, showcasing its powerful features and benefits.

### Getting Started with OCI APM
Log in to your Oracle Cloud Infrastructure console and navigate to the Application Performance Monitoring. Here, you will find a wealth of information about your application's performance

### Visualising Traces and Spans
Click on the "Traces" tab in the APM console. You will see a list of traces generated by the OTel demo application. Each trace represents a user request or an operation within your application.
*Image <>*

Select a specific trace to view its details, including the span topology and tree topology.

*Image <>*

Click on any of the spans to see the span details, which include kubernetes data, SpanId, TraceID etc

*Image <>*

*Mahesh Notes: Need a Service Map ie a high-level overview of the interactions between different services in the application. This will help in understanding the dependencies and identifying potential performance bottlenecks between services.*

*what else should we include for APM section?*

## Using OCI Logging Analytics service to collect and analyze Logs from Kubernetes Infrastructure and Pods
OCI Logging Analytics provides a [complete solution](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/logging-analytics/doc/kubernetes-solution.html) for monitoring Kubernetes (K8s) cluster deployed in OCI, third party public clouds, private clouds, or on-premises including managed Kubernetes deployments. We will start with discovering the K8s cluster running the OpenTelemetry Demo App.

### Getting Started with monitoring a K8s Cluster using OCI Logging Analytics
Log in to your Oracle Cloud Infrastructure console and navigate to Logging Analytics Administration. Select Solutions -> Kubernetes -> Connect Clusters -> Monitor Kubernetes -> Oracle OKE, here we are assuming that the K8s cluster is running in OCI. Select the Cluster and press *Next* and select there the Comparment to be used for telemetry data and related monitoring resources, usually it will be the same like the one used for collecting the logs. Click on *Configure log collection* o kick-off collecting logs, metrics, and object information from related Kubernetes components, computer nodes, subnets, and load balancers.

